[MUSIC]
>> Kyle Simpson: All right, let's talk
about a pattern on top of callbacks.
This has actually been around for
a really, really long time.
It way predates JavaScript, this
terminology didn't even really exist in
JavaScript until people started trying
to adopt this notion in JavaScript, and
the word is Thunk.
I have no idea where they
came up with this word,
I don't know what they were smoking,
I wish I had some of it.
It's a weird word, I don't even know what
its origin is, but I can describe to you
what I think it is and
it's actually kind of deceptively simple.
What a Thunk is from a synchronous
perspective, a Thunk is a function
that has everything already that it
needs to do to give you some value back.
You do not need to pass any arguments in,
you simply call it and
it will give you a value back.
Does that sound familiar?
You remember how we were talking about
that before in a different workshop?
A Thunk is just a function with some
closure state keeping track of some value,
or values, and
it gives you those things back whenever
you call the function.
>> Kyle Simpson: Here's
a synchronous thunk.
I've got an add function,
which expects an x and a y, and
I make a thunk that calls the add function
and already has the 10 and the 15 in it.
It's hard coded in this case.
Every time I call like I do online, so
that's line 9 to call the add function,
but every time I call line 9,
if I call func over and over and
over again, I'm gonna get the same
value out every single time.
So, now here's the important part.
Func itself value, which is a function,
it has become a container around
that particular collection of state.
And that is now a container that I can
pass around anywhere in my program,
as a container wrapped around that state.
And any time I want to extract it,
I simply have to call that function and
I get the value out.
I don't have to pass the value or
the state itself.
I passed the wrapper around that
state all around my program.
So it becomes like a token that represents
this value and it's easy to get it out.
All I have to do is execute
it to get the value
out.
>> Kyle Simpson: You
may not realize it yet, but that is the
fundamental conceptual underpinning for
what a promise is, a wrapper around
a value Here are the wrapper as
a function in promises it's
a much more sophisticated thing.
Was actually quite powerful to think about
when we extend phones from the synchronous
nature into an asynchronous nature.
This is a synchronous thunk and
that's the most common definition for
them to find is that
it's a synchronous thing.
What is an asynchronous thunk?
Well, there's no right or
wrong definition here.
But the most natural way that we could
define an asynchronous thunk is that it is
a function that doesn't need any
arguments passed to it to do its job,
except you need to pass it a callback so
that you can get the value out.
>> Kyle Simpson: So
that's what we're gonna
call an asynchronous thunk.
So let's extend our synchronous
thunk to an asynchronous thunk.
I have an add async function.
It fakes some asynchronicity
with a set time out.
Takes the callback that
you've passed in on line 1.
On line 3, it calls it with the addition.
So we make our thunk on line 7 with
addAsync, and we hard code (10, 15, cb).
And on line 11,
we have that value that thunk value
that we can pass around our function.
And every time we call thunk and
pass in a callback,
we know we're going to get our value out.
But here's what's incredibly
powerful about this pattern.
From the outside world we do not know nor
do we have to care whether that value
is available immediately or whether it's
gonna take a while to get us that value.
What difference is a make
to us we pass on a callback
we know you'll call the callback
when you have a value ready for us.
So the first time we call func and
we pass in a callback,
it might have to do some significant work
to calculate the answer to your question.
It might make some ajax call, and do some
other kind of crazy calculations, and
it might take a while.
And then it may decide to memorize
the answer to that question, so
the next time you call it, it just
gives you the value back right away.
But from the outside world does it
matter to us whatsoever how that works.
What's happening here is that by wrapping
this function around the state and
allowing it to be asynchronous in
nature we have essentially normalized
time out of the equation we have
factored time out of the equation.
We have produced a wrapper around the
value that has become time independent.
It doesn't matter if
the value is there now or
if it's gonna come later we still
use it in the exactly the same way.
Hear this if you don't hear
anything else that I've said today.
Time is the most complex Factor
of state in your program.
Managing time is the most
complex state in your program.
That's why this is huge to be able
to come up with a very simple,
there's no libraries involved,
this is straight up core JavaScript.
Just a different way of looking at and
using the mechanisms that have been
available to us for all 20 years.
We've taken this notion,
this fundamentally difficult
thing to reason about called time and
we've eliminated it as a confusing factor.
As a complicating factor.
I have this thunk, it represents a value,
I pass it around whenever I want
the value, I give it a call back and
I get the value out then that's all I
have to do.
>> Kyle Simpson: I can tell from your
faces that you're not realizing
how groundbreaking that notion is.
Okay but
that is one of the most important I
couldn't believe when I recognized what
that meant I could not believe how far.
I had gotten in JavaScript
without that realisation.
It changed everything for me.
And in fact it's what helped
me understand promises.
I didn't fully understand
the conceptual basis for
promises until I understood
what thunks were doing.
Because we'll find out that a promise is
a time independent wrapper around a value.
Just has a fancier API.
So as I said earlier, I like to say that
thunks are promises without the fancy API.
>> Kyle Simpson: Okay?
Now There are some twists,
there are some wrinkles that we
can throw into the situation.
If I wanted to make a Thunk like give
myself a generalized utility for
making Thunks.
I can do all that old
crappy array stuff and.
Pushing the arguments on and
calling apply.
I could do it that way.
And I could use it this way
as we see on line seven.
So now I'm not manually making one but
I can make any thunk that I
want by presetting the callback
as the first argument, and
anything else that I pass, it's going
to get passed along to it always And
that's how I could produce my thunk.
So I could make myself a utility for
making these,
which would be not fundamentally terribly
different from a promise constructor.
makeThunk would be kinda
like a promise constructor.
It's a constructor for thunks.
Yes.
>> Speaker 2: Could you go through the, so
when we talked about
the Problems of callback
this inversion of control not to early,
not too late, not too many times.
>> Kyle Simpson: Yup.
>> Speaker 2: In just to stumble bit on
that with how the promise is.
>> Kyle Simpson: We're
not gonna we're actually not gonna have
any solution to inversion of control of
that.
>> Speaker 2: Yeah OK.
>> Kyle Simpson: Promises are going to
solve the inversion of control.
We're not quite there.
>> Speaker 2: Yeah, okay.
That makes me more Yeah.
>> Kyle Simpson: We haven't solved
conversion control yet.
We're laying the conceptual
under pinning for promises and
that's why we're looking at that.
>> Speaker 2: Yeah, I just wanted to cause
that realization happened
earlier we're going to.
Now getting at better understanding
what promises and just wasn't sure
how much the fancy the is you
know solving our problems or
how much is it.
>> Kyle Simpson: Yeah, got it.
The thunks really aren't
addressing inversion of control
The nature of how promises are designed
are designed to solve that.
So we'll get there okay.
Your question about going
over Slide 39 again.
This is a synchronous thunk
as you can see I have an add
function that receives an X and a Y.
And I make another function called thunk
Which doesn't need any arguments at all.
Thunk can simply be called
because it is hard coded to
know to call the add function on line six.
And it's hard coded to know to pass in
the values 10 and 15, also on line 6.
So everywhere we do
something like we do on
line nine we're gonna get
the exact same value.
That's a synchronous thunk Slide 40.
The asynchronous version.
Exactly the same concept except when we
need to pass in a call back to our thunk.
So line 11, I can't just call thunk and
get the value as a return value.
I have to call thunk and
give it a call back which will
receive that value as I do on line.
You're going to get a chance to
practice with thunks, I promise.
All right.
So here's a rewriting of that
silly running example, calculating
the meaning of life By using thunks.
Now you know something slightly
different from what I did before.
On lines one and two,
I precreates some thunks.
I say that get ten needs to when it's
invoked call get data with the value ten.
So line one is not actually
made that Ajax request yet.
That's important understand.
All we've done is create a wrapper that
when called will do that Ajax request.
Okay.
So I pre set up the get 10
in the get 30 thunks and
I can start using them so
on line 4 I use it.
Call get 10 give it a call back.
I know a thousand milliseconds from now
number one will have the value 10 then I
use the get 30 thunk on line 6 and there
is the line 9 I create another thunk.
Why couldn't I create that thunk,
the one from line nine,
why couldn't I pre create
that up on line three?
Because it's temporarily dependent upon
the responses from the first two thunks.
Does everybody see that.
So that's why I had to defer
the creation of that particular thunk.
Bottom line 13 I can simply call get
answer which is my thunk and I will
retrieve that now get an answer happens
to be a container around that value and
I can pass get an answer all over my
program and anybody that needs the meaning
of life can simply call that give it
a callback and get the answer back.
There's something really important to note
here as I said it's important to note that
this particular expression of a thunk,
is what I guess I would call a lazy thunk.
If I was really trying to come
up with some terminology for
it's a lazy thunk in that
it doesn't do the work.
Until you call it the first time.
You could make an active thunk which did
the work and just held on to its response.
So it did the work right away and
held on to the response.
That is another way of doing a thunk.
And I'm giving you a gigantic hint for
your upcoming exercise.
>> Speaker 3: It's like deferring
a promise or something.
>> Kyle Simpson: It's a lot
like a promise.
That's what I'm saying these
are the conceptual underpinnings.
So our current expression
of thunks is very lazy.
It is possible to do
thunks in a different way.
Which they are active.
That means the first time they're called
they do the first time they're set up they
do the work and they don't give you
the answer until you pass in the callback.